A: You can make a self-introduction now.
B: Thank you for giving me this opportunity to introduce myself. My name is Wang wei，and please can call me Leo. I am 42 years old. I got my college education in Suzhou Radio & Television University, with major in computer science.

After graduation, I found a job in APP aka Golden Hong Ye Paper Group Co., Ltd , which is manufacturing Facial tissue paper and office paper , I spent 1 year there for setup and  install auto-folding machine with German engineer, training new staff, to arrange product tasks.

After that， I joined in Suzhou Gultech Electronics company as a engineer. My job included Unix c-shell programming, maintaining HP-Unix workstation, So I'm relatively familiar with UNIX systems. I also designed and modified PCB artwork film using a software called   Genesis2000, and CNC drilling machine programming, of cause planning manufacturing process work-flow etc.

By the way, Genesis2000 comes from a Israeli company, Technology in Israel especially in military field is world-leading, such as radar and optical detection.

I used to have overseas work experience. From 2000  August  to  2000 November, I worked in Singapore Gul Technology Ltd for CAD/CAM Engineer position。I was also responsible for staff training at the same time in headquarters.
After returned to Suzhou, I was promoted to the supervisor of CAD/CAM department, in charge of the CAD/CAM division. 

Next, I worked for Selecta Technologies Suzhou corporation Ltd, which is a company that provides IT outsourcing.  
I manage customer company IT operations: Hardware Configuration and maintain  workstations like HP/Sun , RedHat Linux server,  APC UPS; Panasonic PBX telephone switch ; deploy Windows 2003 Domain, Exchange, Lotus Domino, Enterprise Portal, vsFTP, Samba file-sharing, Vlan and other Help desk job.  I helped the company obtain ISO/IEC20000 internal certification.

At last, the company I currently worked for is Amax Global Services. My position is Senior Engineer of R & D Dept, MES, WMS system operation and maintenance engineer, MES consultant of Pre-Sales Dept. 
My main work consists of following : 
No1：deploy Mysql, Redis, Gitlab, Harbor, TeamCity, ELK and other services system for in-house and customer use,  deploy the company's MES and WMS system microservices, we also use docker and other technology to simplify deploying those services
No2: manage company's Linux server and application backup，system status monitoring. 
No3: develop and maintenance of JasperMES, JasperWMS and PrintUsage Printing monitoring platform(include iOS native app), I also developed a RFID card reader program for the Mac platform.
No4: Pre-sales customer demand research, arrangement and writing solution documents.
No5: Write the MES,WMS and PrintUsage System project proposal and the bidding response document. On-site software implementation, providing customer remote technical support.
No6: Provide training and technical support to domestic and overseas customer.



The reasons for leaving my last job,
Because I am always on business trip from time to time. I think I should spend more time with my family. My parents are old and suffer from some chronic diseases, and I need to take care of them. 


At last, I think I am suitable for this job and I am fairly experienced in IT field ,  so I believe I can do it well. Moreover, I think I can grow up together with your company.



Self- assessment
With many years of experience in manufacturing IT operation and maintenance, I am good at communicating with customers and colleagues to provide solutions. At the same time, has rich experience in training staff and teaching. Be good tat discovering problems and solving them quickly, transforming and absorbing new technologies into work.

Technical Expertise
Skilled in use of network hardware like Cisco routers, switches, PIX etc. can setup Enterprise VLAN , could configure Panasonic PBX(TD-510). Familiar with HP, Dell, Sun Unix Server. Setup Windows Domain, DNS, DHCP, WSUS, Mail service. Has extensive experience in installing and maintaining mainstream printers, copiers, scanners and MFPs in HP, Canon, and other brands in the market.
Skilled in Domino system, and Microsoft Exchange mail system.
Skilled in MS, Open-source office , familiar with Objective-C/Swift programming language, familiar with SQL Server and MySQL database. 

Skilled in manufacture ERP procedure. With 2 years experiences of implement ERP project.
Skilled in PCB manufacture process flow. 








Remote Assistance Tools：webex、teamviewer、 

On-line meeting tools：skepe、Zoom、Tencent Meeting

VPN： Cisco 











